This report is was initially going to be apply Sentiment Analysis (SA) methods to tweets pulled from Twitter to identify the polarity of sentiments that people have towards different Toronto neighbourhoods. The intention was to present a practical approach to weighing and ranking sentiments of these neighbourhoods to demonstrate the value that Twitter Sentiment Analysis (TSA) and SA of other social media platforms can have in informing revitalization initiatives, and areas such as city planning and policy development.
However, in attempting to do an initial pull from Twitter, the limitation of only having academic access to pull 30 days’ worth of tweets, resulted in few tweets related to Toronto neighbourhoods. On top of that constraint, the context of a global pandemic in the form of the COVID-19 virus  had turned the majority of tweets to that subject. Not being able to access the full archive of public Twitter data through Twitter’s Historical PowerTrack API since it was prohibitively expensive, restricted me from being able to search data from multiple years and restrict searches to before the COVID crisis. 
Despite these drawbacks, I would still like to demonstrate the potential value TSA can bring when applied in social science contexts such as urban planning. I will use the current context of the COVID-19 epidemic as an example, whose same methodology can be applied to Toronto neighbourhood data when pulled from Twitter.
For this example, I have pulled tweets about the Coronavirus and Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver to analyze the polarity of sentiments in the tweets in relation to each of the cities and to compare which cities have either more positive or negative tweets on this topic.
